hey everybody it's saster um have a
treat for you doing something fun uh
I've just done an investment in a
breakout vertical SAS leader called
mango Min we have the co Daniel Lang
here Daniel thanks so much for joining
us and so much for having me so we're
gonna have some fun um on this one maybe
maybe you can learn a little bit about
the investing process for folks that
think it's fun um vertical SAS somehow
has become hot we're going to talk about
this I've been doing SAS for a few years
and I don't know how it got hot although
I have a few theories I actually think
it used to be Niche and in fact I in the
old days everyone thought everything in
vertical sass was too small and too
Niche um I think Viva went public and
they're worth 35 billion they are
verticalized um CRM and vaulting service
for Pharma that changed a lot of
people's mind adjacent to manglement
which we'll chat about service Titan
should be one of the best SMB vertical
SAS IPOs in the next 12 months they're
approaching a billion in ARR um the
founders have spoken at SAS before it is
a great one service Titan they SAS for
plumbers and HVAC units and others and
mango mint Daniel's gonna tell us a
little about it is SAS for salons and
spas alike um to typically seen as a
smaller Tam and also one with a lot of
vendors um in the old old days there was
a company called mindbody which got went
public right and got acquired for a
billion or so right and they went public
I think they were only worth a couple
hundred million bucks when they went
public I may have the narrative wrong
and then everyone turned around they're
like worth a billion dollars they like
wow maybe there's some money in this
space um and now it's being reinvented
so there's a lot I want to chat about
vertical SAS and why but Daniel tell us
like what why what's changing in the
space why and and for give folks
contexts uh mango mints at double- digit
Millions growing triple digits okay
growing over 100% at double- digit
Millions that's pretty good especially
today which we're going to chat about
but why what's changed what's changed in
software in automation that makes why
why is Salon software
changing yeah no and thanks Jason for
having me I'm really excited to be here
um I think as you said right like
vertical software has been around for a
really long time and it's no different
in our space like I think the first
Salon and Spa software providers came
around in the 80s even right so so it's
not a new thing um but what has changed
uh probably the last five years or so
maybe a little bit longer now is that
you have all of these like embedded
financial services that are now
available that just didn't exist before
the stripes of the worlds the audience
and um you know that is one thing and
then the other thing is you have this
expectation from consumers to um
basically want to uh talk to their
businesses through digital means right
so they don't want to call uh at 9: in
the morning to book their appointment
they want to do it at 10:00 p.m. at
night uh and do it from the iPad right
and so with with the the the fintech
stuff that's uh come into play I think
it has really changed um what these
companies can be whereas before like 10
15 years ago you know if you did like
Salon and Spa software it was basically
a calendar calendar with some bells and
whistles around it but now it's like you
know there's payments in it payroll
processing in it you can do payments
online in person recurring billing all
of that stuff that's like coming
together in these platforms and I think
that just makes the market that much
bigger yeah one I I briefly when we when
I kicked this off I talked about Viva
very very very Enterprise 78 figure
deals and then service Titan one I
didn't talk about was toast toast today
is worth let's look 14 billion dollars
at a 1.5 billion AR so that's you know a
couple years ago 10x 10x mult when your
public was nothing today it's it's
pretty Elite and what I think is
happening is these vertical sasses for
SBS there's going to be multiple toasts
and toast and tell me if I'm wrong what
you think people go to a restaurant and
they use toast everyone sort of knows
toast but it's this stack right it's
backend software front end point of sale
I payroll Erp workforce management wfm I
think it's like 10 or 12 products to
make toast work and I think that's what
you've built a lot of you've built
payroll you've built Erp you're thinking
about financials is that what SBS want
do they want the full stack
today yeah I think so um I think a lot
of people get this wrong especially in
investors where because everybody at
some point read the best memo right and
they're all thinking about those layer
cakes and you can add more more to it
yeah but thing best get those guys at
bmer get wrong no they didn't get it
wrong I think a lot of people that read
the memo are a lot of people misread it
because because I think you know there's
this misconception that you can just
like oh you have like the Erp software
right so you can just layer on all of
these services and just because they
integrated people are going to use it
and I think that's a fallacy that's
wrong um I think when you add um a
product like payroll for example or
payments for example it's not enough
just to integrate it that's not good
enough because you're going up against
players like Gusto ADP paychecks that
have do been doing this for decades
right so they're going to be Gusto is
great we use it all the time it's great
software right and it is and we actually
use we use gusta for a long time as well
and you can't compete with them on just
payroll right so when you bring them in
you really have to think about okay how
do you integrate them in a way where you
can cut out 70 80% of the time that
people take to use these tools right and
you really have to be an order of
magnitude better in order for someone to
switch from their QuickBooks to you yeah
and I think that's the thing that people
often misunderstand where it's not
enough just to put in an eye frame you
really have to go deep and and think
about the workflows and and and solve
them and that's from what I understand
toast has done as well right where they
didn't just add payroll processing they
didn't just add all of these Services
they really thought about okay when we
bring them together what's possible now
that's not possible when these are like
separate tools yeah it's interesting you
know a few
um is a legal practice management
platform Jack Newton's a great I guess
we can call Legal vertical house now now
that it's hot right I think he was
around for 15 years getting to 100
million in Revenue and then they finally
got payments right and they went from
100 I think to 200 or 100 to 200 and two
and a half two years or something and
just raised at three billion right and
uh Renee ler at Bill who's at sast is
you're one of my favorite founders of
all time I think it took Bill like 10
years to add payments to their platform
to do it right and for both of them it
was not that it wasn't part of the
vision but the idea that you can just
randomly Bol payments onto any SAS
platform I think is your point like it
it not that simple so what did it take
to add payments to manglement to make it
click right to get you dat figures and
revenue yeah I mean we've been through a
journey um with payments we started
early and we used to partner with like
external um payment providers before and
we eventually settled on like you know
deeply embedding it and completely white
labeling it as well so our customers
they don't even know that there's
somebody else in in the background doing
like you know the the money movement and
stuff they is like for them it's like
part of the mement product it's not even
a thing that they think actively about
but to get to that place you know when
you we're coming up on like processing
almost a billion dollars in transactions
annually and you're going to have to
deal with like compliance and risk and
underwriting there's fraud and despite
you know the stripes and all of these
providers helping a lot it's still
really hard to do it at scale and to do
it well so I think that's something that
you just have to learn as a vertical
size company like not just the product
but also the operational complexity that
comes with just managing it at skill so
yeah it has to be I mean for folks that
haven't tried it mango made it is um one
of the impressive things for me is that
it is effortless right which we'll talk
about in a minute I think maybe it has
to be in 2024 but everything from the
booking to the interaction to moving
things around to payments to click to
Apple pay or to put in your details or
everything it is effortless um but
that's probably that's probably the
reason to do it like the bill and Cleo
stories it probably asked to if you
can't get to effortlessness
probably Bing payments or fintech on
isn't going to work if it's not
effortless right just sck yeah or
payroll stick with gusto right it's not
effortless you also want to do something
that's actually meaningful right like um
you know when you have it it takes so
much to get somebody to switch to an Erp
system to like you know switch out
everything move over all the data train
all the employees right it's like really
big move for them right and so once you
have them it's it's it's powerful right
and assuming that the product is good
and they you know you have to trust and
NPS is high and all of that stuff you
can sell them more stuff but you want to
go after products that have potentially
100% H right where it's 100% of your
installed base and turns out there's not
that many of these right because like
you know if you go down the stack of
like what a small business uses today
there's like you know five or six things
that you can go after but it's not like
50 so yeah yeah yeah it is interesting
you we think we see toast everywhere
it's in about 133% of the market so
getting all getting that that majority
it's a it's it it it could be
existential um
the nrr um actually before we get there
I want to talk about your nrr but you
you hit a point onboarding okay so when
folks think about SM SMB in some ways is
easier than Enterprise and that there's
more of them but the deal size is harder
they they often don't have a person to
screen a vendor they don't have an IT
team there's
challenges what I've learned and I it
took me a while to figure that out the
hardest not only is that hard the
hardest corner of SMB the hardest corner
is when you have to do
onboarding s canvas is hard enough right
Squarespace is hard enough but folks
like toast or owner that I've invested
in or gorgeous that I've invested in or
mango M they doing it even harder there
is business process change for a tiny
business what if you learn how do you do
this because because they're just going
to leave if it's not hard but yet you
can't it's not at 4 second onboarding so
what do how do you how do you make
onboarding work for SDS when there isn't
$100,000 or $200,000 of money to work
with yeah it's well I you know at least
I can speak about how we do it other
companies approaches but we are all in
on on product quality we're like fully
product Le uh with our onboarding as
well so we do have onboarding managers
that are there to manage the complexity
of what you just described right yeah
and usually if you think about it you
know some of our customers when they
switch over they have a system like mind
with like 10 years of data and it
includes everything from like you know
purchase histories products inventory
gift cards packages memberships all of
that data has to be transferred and in a
lot of cases these businesses are open
seven days a week so you have to do it
on the Fly they are not going to just
close the business because they're
switching software right so that that's
an extra wrinkle to it um the other
thing is um as you said you know
employee training a lot of these folks
have like 10 15 20 uh people who use the
platform every day on their phone on
their computer on their iPads right so
everybody needs to switch at once it's
not a land and expand yeah it's like it
has to happen in a very coordinated way
which is why it's hard um what we found
works well is really going deep on the
product experience um mangamint does not
have any contracts so anyone can sign up
um put in their credit card after 30
days and that's it so our uh sales reps
and our onboarding managers are really
motivated to basically help our
customers just like figure out okay
would this work in the business right
what we don't do is we're not going to
talk someone like hey you know sign on
the doted line now we got your money
good luck right that doesn't work at all
like you really have to be invested in
the success of the onboarding process
and the product has to lead the way and
so we have tons of like you know in
product help guides and all of that
stuff so we went really deep on those
things and it's worked really well for
us so you've got you've got a customer
that's been on an old platform like
mindbody for years they want to switch
right
um and you've got this massive amount of
sort of semi-structured data in this
system there's no there's no it team how
do you do that it's it's nuanced right
how do you do that because otherwise the
hurdle to switching is so high isn't it
yeah I mean it depends obviously on a
lot of things right um it depends on how
much of the data do they even want to
bring right A lot of times it's an
opportunity to say Hey you know let's
make some bigger changes in the business
as well but the onboarding process can
be as quick as like one day when
somebody's like starting fresh they
don't have a lot of stuff or it can take
three months yeah and so there really is
no one answer but you have to get really
good at it because um switching software
is such a big scary thing for them if
you don't take them by their hand and
and guide them through that process it's
definitely not going to work like you
will see a lot of turn in those first
three months um so it's very nuanced
one thing I've noticed over the years
when you have a SMB focused vertical SAS
and there is onboarding oftentimes the
size of the post sales team is larger
than the sales team do you have that or
there's actually more folks post sales
and than
sales um if you customer success
onboarding support there's often more
people than in sales itself we have
about uh one onboarding manager for
every two sales reps okay but I think
part of that is also because um remember
we don't do contracts and we have a
30-day free Troll and we actually start
onboarding during the troll so you
literally can't get started no no
barriers and so the sales people
themselves are almost like mini
onboarding managers that handle a lot of
work already so I think that's why in
our case that's the balance but I
totally see what you mean um I mean you
know even if you had contracts right if
you can't get the business to adopt your
platform successfully you you've already
lost right so you really gotta do
whatever it takes to get them to the
other side yeah I find many folks that
don't that have a lot of customer SBS
are shocked when they
see the actual number of paid customers
that go live is in the 80s they're often
as cosos we think oh God it must be
96% and and they're often shocked when
they look at the data um and they're
like oh my God it's 81% of our customers
go live right they're almost instantly
gone even if they're paying right if
they don't go live right yeah we
actually found there's a an inverse
relationship to the speed and the
success rate of it like a lot of times
or not inverse inverse corly meaning
sometimes you know you think that oh
like more momentum is a good thing and
let's you know onboard you really quick
let's go live next week but actually the
success rate drops quite a bit when you
push that hard for it because um you
know you you want to bring everybody on
board you want to get them comfortable
right like there's so much um risk from
their perspective so if you give them
just a little bit more time right like
if you don't compress it so much but
like you know give them 3 weeks four
weeks five weeks whatever it takes right
so if we take off the pressure it
actually often times has better results
and and we stopped being so pushy about
the timeline that's a good insight and
the um I find in my my limited
experience of this the sales reps
actually hate doing this they hate
helping for deployment all they want to
do is get the customer onboard and
immediately go on to the next deal so
your does your sales team not hate it or
what do the learn how do you get your
sales team especially these days when
sales wants to do the least possible how
do you get them to do more well I think
it's how you set up the incentive
structure right um if you pay your sales
rep uh commission the day the deal
closes and then there's no clawback or
none of that stuff then of course that's
what they're going to do right but we've
worked really hard to have a incentive
structure that that makes it attractive
for sales reps to be in invested in the
success right where we pay well on
expansion over time as well and we
expansion is a good one too right like
we have three four products now that
someone can buy payroll is the latest
one we don't actually want you to buy
payroll on day one like we will actively
discourage you we incentivize our sales
reps to keep the deal sizes lower at the
time it closes because the chance of
success is that much higher and we know
that hey once they are successfully
activated now they trust us they had a
great experience it's so much easier to
talk to them about like product two
three and four yeah well I guess the rep
can look forward to doubling their
commission if it goes well over the
course of the Year and that you buy the
other three products right that's
exactly yeah yeah um it's a good Insight
I find that these days that still works
but sometimes in this distributed world
that reps would still rather do less and
make a little bit less but it is a good
learning it is I I do find sometimes
it's like okay if I do nothing after the
deal closes and I make 70% as much as if
I have to do the onboarding the followup
the deployment maybe maybe since I'm
working from the beach from Bali or my
van maybe I'll take 70% but it's a good
point it is a good point yeah um so
related to that
um you know the the other one of the
biggest issues with SMB in general and
it's actually one reason why vertical
SMB is a little bit more attractive this
is a good example is nrr right um
HubSpot famously Brian and dares came to
saster annual couple years ago and
there's a great Deep dive on it on
YouTube but you know HubSpot nrr was
like less than 80% up until 25 or 30
million in AR right so you're at 110
nrr uh which from smbs right which is a
gift so what's the learning is it being
multiproduct besides having great
software but a lot of us what how do how
do you get to 110% NR what's the
learning yeah well it's interesting
right because when you think about n
with most Enterprise software a lot of
it comes from seat expansion where you
just get more folks to use your tool we
don't have that right like there's there
there's none of that going on so the
expansion can only come from selling
them new products that you didn't have
before so you definitely need to make
sure that you're investing in like in
know products that people can even buy
otherwise there is no chance for
expansion um so I think that's just the
mechanical piece but the thing that's
really important to um get that is to
have trust and uh people forget how uh
much our customers depend on our
software like literally it's their
operating system if mang doesn't work
these businesses can can close there's
nothing they can do they don't know who
their clients are they can't access the
medical records they can't take notes
they can't take payments like they might
as well close and so we invest a crazy
amount almost like a bank in making sure
that our systems don't go down and so
reliability and quality of product is so
important but once you have it you you
get the trust from customers and that is
the trust that you need so that when you
show up and say hey guess what we just
launched marketing automation let's say
you get a really high adoption rate on
that one because people have that trust
relationship where they know it's going
to be a good quality product yeah I
worry that we have a whole Generation
Now
where for the stress to hit the number
they are burning these relationships
with these ripoffs because who wants to
buy payroll processing or email
marketing or something else from a
vendor when I just got ripped off on my
renewal yeah who wants to right um I
mean canva is the greatest one of the
greatest products I've ever used right
and I don't know really what happened
but it lit up the internet this week
when some of their Enterprise plans they
quadrupled the Quint tiple the pricing
just saying we earned it our product
does more and maybe they earned it and
maybe it's not a fair Shake but all of a
sudden when you break these
relationships I can't imagine what it's
like to make that call to see if you
want to buy more from us I wor we have a
whole generation where we've we've we've
Twisted the knife so deeply in our base
to hit the plan that when we go to sell
them that next product in 20 2025 20
they're just gonna say
no they're just gonna say no right
happens to us all the time you know we
sign up to a random bi tool or whatever
and then like year two comes up and
they're just they're like just kidding
it's now 50% more and like what we just
bought it last year like how can it be
50% more like product's not 50% better
um so and on last one on this NR because
it is so structurally important um and
we're seeing so many public sassin Cloud
companies see a decline in nrr of the
last 18 24
months do you find that the more
products they buy the higher the nrr is
I mean I guess mathematically it's the
case so for maybe maybe that's the wrong
question although still question is your
grr higher is your retention higher the
your logo retention the higher the more
products they buy yeah I mean certainly
right um you know you just as I said you
know we don't have contracts so anybody
can leave any time they want and we even
like refund them like mid-mon no
questions asked so we intentionally want
to make it easy to leave mangaman
because that way we know that the
customers that use us and pay us they
really want it and they're really
actively using it and so um what happens
is um when you set it up that way you
have no choice but to help hopefully get
them more products right and so if
somebody signs up with payroll
processing let's say and they get 15
workers to connect their bank accounts
and fill out the W2s and all of that
stuff I mean it's a pretty high bar now
to switch away and you know we're not
perfect right like you know sometimes we
mess up and like there's something
that's annoying in the product and
customers will let us know but because
now they would have to switch the
marketing tool the payroll tool like
yeah calendar like it's such a big thing
for the same reason that it's sometimes
hard for us to get in it's equally hard
to get out because you're so deeply
integrated in their businesses is yeah
okay two last things I want to chat
about that I think are interesting for
folks
um I want to talk about Automation and
to some extent
Ai and how it impacts labor and I think
the internet is all excited about Sam
Alman hey one person can build a billion
dollar startup I'm not going to share my
opinion you probably know what it is but
um I think there's a different issue on
Automation and AI which I've seen
especially for Investments is that you
can't hire anybody there's no one out
there
not only can we not hire anyone in Tech
to do our campaigns or to do our sales
there is no retail people there's no one
out there to do the work so I I I when I
got to know mangle mint and talked to
some folks in the industry and some
customers this was a theme which is like
we can't even find someone to manage
front of house to the desk we can't find
enough people to follow up to do the
phone calls and do others so is this the
next wave of Automation in AI for SBS is
just the fact forget about forget about
saving money we just can't find people
yeah are there enough Americans are
there enough Americans to do the work
for all of for all of us sixf figed
knowledge workers are enough people to
do the actual work so we can live our
remote
lives yeah I think you hit the nail on
the head right like it's not necessarily
just a cost of Labor although that is a
big issue as well where those like front
desk workers you know you think about a
spa with 10 15 providers they would
normally have three four providers that
is before Co yeah each of them get paid
like 13 14 bucks an hour now that same
business has to make it work with like
one or two providers so half of them and
those same people make 22 $23 an hour so
cost of Labor is up supply of labor is
down and retention is really low as well
so there's this natural demand for these
small businesses to invest more in
technology and I think that's also
driving a lot of that growth that you
see in vertical sass right now that yeah
those forces right but I think that as
it relates to AI
um it's interesting because a lot of
what these people were doing before is
very unstructured uh communication right
where it's like you know hey I'm going
to call and like I'm not really sure
what I want that sort of thing yeah and
you could you couldn't automate these
things even you know with the best
software you just couldn't do it right
so I think what AI unlocks for vertical
SS is that you can now deal with all of
that unstructured data and automate a
lot of things that you just couldn't
before so I think that will be a driver
of growth over the next few years where
a lot of these like you know processes
of you know how clients uh communicate
with businesses will just be handled by
automated systems rather than people
yeah those are good insights I think in
the Enterprise Ai and automation are
about cutting headcount let's cut half
of the Thousand agents we have doing
support my thesis is vertical sass is
blowing is going to blow up because
there just aren't anyone to do the work
yeah there just no what first of all
it's 22 bucks an hour instead of 13 but
I just can't find anyone at my salon
right I think we're going to the amount
whether you can directly charge for that
right which maybe you can't with smbs
you can't charge per per per interaction
like zenes does but I think it's going
to blow up all these categories when
there's no people we need software
because there's no humans to do the work
right um okay one last fun one and then
we'll break um and I may have gotten
this wrong but last question because I
think it'll be inter to folks when you
have a high velocity SMB motion like you
have that's still sales driven you have
a VP of sales you have a small sales
team how much time should the co be
involved in sales and what do you do in
sales um you challenged me a bit on that
and that's good I do love to be
challenged by the best of the best so
what have you learned how much time do
you spend with customers as CEO with
thousands and thousands of high velocity
customers what what do you do to be
involved in
sales yeah well I think there's two
separate things right like there's how
much time do I spend with customers the
answer is lot right like I talk to at
least five maybe 10 a week number five
to 10 a week right but I I think so
because um you know how can you develop
intuition right like you know you as a
CEO so much of what you do is like you
judge things you make decisions on like
you know should we go this way or that
way and if you don't have intuition if
you don't have Instinct right and you're
just not going to have it unless you
spend a lot of time talking to folks and
being out there and I do it in person as
much as I can as well like I I'll travel
all all over the country and I walk in
and I just sit there with them and and
listen so I think that's super important
there's no substitute for that but to
your second point about sales I haven't
been talked to any sales Prospect of the
last let's say 1,500 customers that we
uh onboarded um so I've been out of this
for a couple of years at least now
completely and I think that's also
important right because when you build
like a high velocity sales motion you
got to you got to find the systems to
make it scale and it can't be that oh
you know we need someone to help close
to steal let bringing in the CEO when
the deal size is only like you know six
seven 8K ACV like you have to have
something that's a bit bringing in the
big guns on this one
yeah yeah no fair point I think um you
know maybe we'll break um I think my
favorite thing that you said since it
was unscripted was 10 to 15 a week right
I've written I've written this so many
times over the years in sasra I think
it's true and I think that just like
many
Founders think they they do a lot of
work interviewing but they don't really
interview 30 candidates at least for
every executive position you got to talk
to 10 to 15 customers a week it's too
easy to fall away from that especially
with in the Enterprise sometimes you get
tortured to do it right because you got
to go visit the seven figure deal it's
too easy when you have SMB or High
Velocity to not talk to think you're
talking a 10 to 15 a week but you're too
busy working on all the other stuff you
got you got to right or you just your
knowledge decays you can't especially
scale you can't shoot from the hip so I
I love that you said that that point and
I'm going to kick everyone's rear that
might be watching and listening be
honest how many customers do you talk to
the week and do you travel and
especially withb and and a product Le
motion like you have it I mean and and
your motion is 100% inbound one way or
the other right it's very easy to not
travel too why would you travel when
they're on where yeah the salons are out
in the real world outside the office but
but they all come through inbound and
plg why don't need to go visit customers
in person because it's work yeah you got
if you want to win you got to do both
right you got to do 10 to 15
and meet as many in person as you can
you know what the problem is when you do
it over Zoom or on a phone call people
show up with like a spread like they're
like hey I'm going to talk to the CEO of
this company I'm going to tell them my
10 things that I hate about the software
and I want them to change you get you
get you get a you get a fire hydrant of
complaints yes but what you miss out on
I feel like is all the the nuances like
the subtleties you don't get the same
Fidelity as when you're there in person
you can just see things happening right
you don't get to speak to like the front
desk worker that actually is the person
and using it for 10 hours a day right
and they might tell you something
different than the owner but they're not
going to be on the phone if you schedule
up uh schedule a phone call so I think
it's really important to do it in person
and to do it as much as possible um so
yeah so I plan to do that for definitely
yeah all right a man three thumbs up on
that one all right Daniel this was
terrific um we will we're double digits
we're at eight figures and AR growing
triple digits we will check back in
around 50 to 100 million ER see what's
changed on this list we'll update it um
I I uh I may have a little a few more
gray hairs you may have a few on your
beard we'll be mostly the same when we
do this at 100 million but thanks for
all the time man sounds great thanks so
much Jason take care